add blog post for 11am ET on Wed (#13544)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/istio-graduates-within-cncf/index.md

---
title: "Announcing Istio's graduation within the CNCF"
publishdate: 2023-07-12
attribution: "Craig Box, for the Istio Steering Committee"
keywords: [Istio,CNCF]
---

> We are delighted to announce that [Istio is now a graduated Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) project](https://www.cncf.io/blog/).

Reviewer: this is where the link should be updated.

We have been delighted to welcome Microsoft to our community after [their decision to archive the Open Service Mesh project and collaborate together on Istio](https://openservicemesh.io/blog/osm-project-update/). As the [third most active CNCF project](https://all.devstats.cncf.io/d/53/projects-health-table?orgId=1) in terms of PRs, and with [support from over 20 vendors](/about/ecosystem/) and [dozens of contributing companies](https://istio.devstats.cncf.io/d/5/companies-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year&var-metric=prs), there is simply no better choice for a service mesh.

We would like to invite the Istio community to [submit a talk to the upcoming virtual IstioCon 2023](https://sessionize.com/istiocon-2023), the companion [full day, in-person event](https://www.lfasiallc.com/kubecon-cloudnativecon-open-source-summit-china/co-located-events/istiocon-call-for-proposals-cn/#preparing-to-submit-your-proposal-cn) co-located with KubeCon China in Shanghai, or [Istio Day](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/co-located-events/istio-day/#call-for-proposals) co-located with KubeCon NA in Chicago.

---

> When we [announced our incubation](/blog/2023/istio-graduates-within-cncf/), we mentioned that the journey began with Istio's inception in 2016. One of the great things about collaborative open source projects is that people come and go from employers, but their affiliation with a project can remain. Some of our original contributors founded companies based on Istio; some moved to other companies that support it; and some are still working on it at Google or IBM, six years later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we [announced our incubation](/blog/2022/istio-accepted-into-cncf/), we mentioned that the journey began with Istio's inception in 2016. One of the great things about collaborative open source projects is that people come and go from employers, but their affiliation with a project can remain. Some of our original contributors founded companies based on Istio; some moved to other companies that support it; and some are still working on it at Google or IBM, six years later.
```

> The announcement from the CNCF and blog posts from [Intel](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/community/Intel-Service-Mesh-Optimizes-and-Protects-Istio-Service-Mesh), [Red Hat](https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/red-hat-congratulates-istio-on-graduating-at-the-cncf) and [Solo.io](https://www.solo.io/blog/istio-graduates-cncf) (with more to come) summarize the thoughts and feelings of those working on the project today.

Reviewer 3: I expect that there will be more link to come (it even suggests that), so this will be updated a bit over the next few days. I'll plan to add a link to IBM's response here as well.

> The announcement from the CNCF and blog posts from [Intel](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/community/Intel-Service-Mesh-Optimizes-and-Protects-Istio-Service-Mesh), [Red Hat](https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/red-hat-congratulates-istio-on-graduating-at-the-cncf), [Tetrate](https://tetrate.io/blog/istio-service-mesh-graduates-cncf/) and [Solo.io](https://www.solo.io/blog/istio-graduates-cncf) (with more to come) summarize the thoughts and feelings of those working on the project today.

Reviewer 3: Curious if we want these alphabetical by company, just a guess based on perceived original order, which move move Tetrate to the end of the list.

Reviewer 4: lgtm, I just picked a random spot, alphabetical makes sense.

Author: the intention is alphabetical; I'll update in future PRs as the list gets longer.
